---
layout: post
title: Exploring the Skies: A New Perspective on Air Transport Connectivity in Africa
---

The air transport industry is crucial for global connectivity, yet its complexities are often underexplored, particularly regarding Africa. 

Utilizing the power of Sankey diagrams, we mapped the intricate flow of aviation activity, emphasizing the pivotal role of hub airports in linking various global regions. Their visual particularly examines Morocco, South Africa, and Sudan, providing a fresh lens on air transport markets in Africa. At the heart of this analysis lies the Global Connectivity Index (GCI), which assesses both nonstop and one-stop connections. Data from 2019 served as the basis for calculating connectivity scores, offering a snapshot of the air transport network pre-pandemic. The results reveal South Africa as a connectivity leader, with Sudan at the opposite end. These variations in connectivity are influenced by economic factors like GDP and the geographical and infrastructural conditions unique to each country. This visual also highlights how airports in Europe and the Middle East play a significant role in facilitating indirect connections, shedding light on the different roles regions play in the global aviation network. It points out the concentration of connectivity at certain airports and how the strategic placement of hubs affects air transport flows. This research underlines the stark differences in aviation networks across countries and the necessity for region-specific policies for development. Sankey diagrams emerge as an exceptionally effective tool in visualizing and comprehending the complexities of air transport connectivity. As the airline industry moves forward, these insights are valuable for policymakers, airlines, and academics, providing guidance for fostering a more connected and accessible world.

![Sankey diagram linking origin airports in Morocco, Sudan and South Africa to hub airports and final destination regions (AFR: Africa. CSC: Central America, South America, and Caribbean. EACA: East Asia and Central Asia. EU: Europe. MEA: Middle East. NAX: Northern America. OCE: Oceania. SSEA: South Asia and South-East Asia.)](/images/Aviation sankey.png)
